you
[Music]
before we had Empire and even before we
were and throughout with The Fresh
Prince of bel-air we adored the nerdy
Steve Urkel and his antics with the
Winslow family on family matters the
series is the third longest-running
sitcom with an african-american cast in
television history with nine seasons and
215 episodes the only show to beat that
run are Tyler Perry's House of Payne and
The Jeffersons
however the things that went on behind
the scenes of the show might make you
take pose as always you're watching how
they changed and here are some
jaw-dropping fingers you never knew
about family matters it was a spinoff of
perfect strangers Family Matters all
began with its matriarch Harriet whose
character originated in the third season
of perfect strangers as the elevator
operator at the Chicago Chronicle the
fictional newspaper where that series
his main character Larry and Balki
worked in the end family matters emerged
the victor running a full season longer
than perfect strangers Steve Urkel was
only supposed to appear in one episode
now it's difficult to imagine the
Winslow family without their nerdy
neighbor Steve Urkel was never intended
to be a regular character on the show
let alone its main character his
introduction came about midway through
the first season and he was originally
slated to appear in just a single
episode but the suspenders wearing
preteen was an instant hit with
audiences and his rule was quickly
beefed up to meet sometimes offering
doubt audience demand there is a real
Steve Urkel well there is a Steve Urkel
he is a friend of series co-creator
Michael Warren who named the Dan one-off
character in honor of his buddy
this occurs popularity grew so did the
number of brain calls placed too early
berkel became an industry into himself
her his popularity extended far beyond
the television screen the merchandising
bonanza behind the character included
orchestras box lunchboxes clothing
trading cars and talking door in 1991
Ralston even introduced an early branded
breakfast cereal called earthly Oz
[Music]
Furcal crossed over onto number of
Arthur shares his popularity made him a
hot commodity on the sitcom crossover
front he made appearances in full house
step by step and me ago he was also
mentioned but not seen in an episode of
Boy Meets World
all this Oak Hill didn't please the rest
of the cast in an interview with Vanity
Fair to Leo Wyatt admitted that the
sudden popularity of his character
caused a little tension on the set
things would definitely strained in the
early going he said with no sense in
hiding that it was a division between
myself and the rest of the cast but over
nine years and 215 episodes obviously
relationships get better I still talk to
certain cast members to this day the
Winslows youngest child totally
disappeared in the show's fourth season
the Winslows youngest daughter Judy is
seen walking upstairs
but never comes down by the time season
5 rolls around Judy was no more nor was
she ever mentioned again throughout the
remaining seasons the reason for Judy's
departure well rumor has it that she
wanted more money
[Music]
Jamie Foxworth continued acting well
sort of seven years after getting the
boot from family matters
Jamie Foxworth the actress who played
Judy popped up in a film project so it
was the kind of film that might make
Eddie Winslow blush in 2000 under the
screen name crave Foxworth began working
in adult films by 2008 she was celebrity
rehabbing it with dr. Drew these days
she's raising her son and working on a
book about being a child star Jamie Foxx
worth wasn't the only Judy in the pilot
episode Judy Winslow was portrayed by
another actress entirely Valerie Jones
was only other credits weren't two
episodes of The Fresh Prince of bel-air
playing two completely different roles
there were two Harriet's
two in an odd move to marry Peyton who
played Harriet left midway through the
series his ninth and final season
they're all was assumed by Juden alta
for the remained of the shower l rumours
have long persisted that her departure
was due to a girl fatigue payton set the
record straight with a TV series final
in 2010 stating that she just wanted
something else to do just to energize me
a little bit more on the creative side
now she had wanted to leave prior to the
show's final season wasn't until here
nine that she was construct surely able
to do so I was like a free agent and so
when they went to CBS and all it asked
me to come back and I really didn't want
to come back had Justin my jazz album
and Howe and we agreed that I would come
back just to kick off the move to CBS
and that's how that whole deal went I
was to do half of a season eight of the
episodes in ahead an option out and are
exercised mine I did this for all that
talk but she was just tired of her there
was some things being said and like I
said just ignore it because you know
it's not true it's a patent but it did
hurt because it made me look like this
scandalous person that was jealous of
this kid Jaleel White could have been a
Huxtable yes
Jaleel White was actually cast as one of
the Huxtable kids Rudi at least he
thought he had been yep that's why the
character was named Rudy was intended to
be a boy
we're told Vanity Fair that's my tragic
auditioning story we were all packed up
and ready to go to New York and my agent
had told my parents that they needed to
start looking for places to live out
there next thing you know it was one
more audition and that was supposed to
be a formality at the network and the
little girl comes walking in and I'm
like even at 8 years old who's she
they're like she's auditioning for Rudy
- so like earth it's not as much of
formalities I thought that was my first
time walking into room of 30 people
staring at you going okay make me laugh
they were in such a hurry to get to New
York and start filming that they came
out and picked the kids one by one right
in front of all of us Malcolm Jamal
Warner tempest blood sir the rest of us
all were home crying it was amazing
obviously I'm grateful that things
worked out the way they did I think it
put a little more money in my pocket
it's one of the longest-running
african-american focus sitcoms a bomb
completing its ninth and final season
Family Matters became the second
longest-running American sitcom
featuring a predominantly
african-american cast the only show that
ran longer made Jeffersons which ran for
11 seasons originally it was Louie
Armstrong who introduced the show now
it's hard to think of family matters
without hearing his theme song as days
go by in your head it's originally theme
music was Louis Armstrong's what a
wonderful world the Sun was switched out
after the fifth episode of the first
season now Armstrong was still heard in
the
pilot episode when it ran in syndication
the theme song was lost entirely during
season 7 where the seventh season the
show's producers decided to go opening
theme less entirely in credit less the
names of the cast and creators when
during each episode teaser scene TGIF
success is a fleeting thing though
Family Matters was a stable program in
ABC's family-friendly TGIF lineup of
Friday night programming the show
changed networks in its final season as
deep step-by-step in 1997 CBS acquired
the rights to broadcast Family Matters
ninth and tenth seasons as part of its
CBS block party TGIF's stiffest
programming competitor the ratings
didn't prove strong enough to make a
tenth season happen and that's all for
now don't forget to leave a like
subscribe and share this video
take care friends